
# Workflow Product Retriever

MoveApps

Github repository:
<https://github.com/dmpstats/Workflow-Products-Retriever>

## Description

Retrieves a Product of a given App comprised in a concurrent Workflow
and combines it with the input data set, enabling data integration
between multiple Workflows.

## Documentation

This App allows users to retrieve objects generated in other Workflows
and combine them with the current input data. It uses MoveApps’ API
functionality in creating stable HTTP links for accessing up-to-date App
Products, such as artifacts and output files, facilitating data
exchanges between concurrent Workflows.

In practice, this App retrieves a single Product generated by a specific
App within an active instance of a concurrent Workflow. The downloaded
object is then appended to the input `move2::move2_loc` data according
to the following operating rule:

- If the retrieved Product is also a `move2::move2_loc` object, its data
  is **stacked** to the input data
- Otherwise, the retrieved Product is **attached** to the input data via
  an object
  [attribute](https://stat.ethz.ch/R-manual/R-devel/library/base/html/attr.html)
  named `appended_products`.

This dual approach offers the flexibility to collect a wide range of
object types and classes (`move2::move2_loc`, `move2::move2_nonloc`,
`move::moveStack`, `data.frame`, `tibble`, model objects, etc.),
expanding the usability of the output in downstream Apps. Currently, the
App supports the retrieval of Products stored under the following
file-types:

- **`.csv`**
- **`.txt`**
- **`.rds`**

Users can employ multiple instances of the App whithin a Workflow,
linking them sequentially or deploying them at different stages of the
Workflow, to collect multiple Products from other Workflows.
Furthermore, it can function as either the initial App of a Workflow or
as an intermediary App.

<div>

> **Important**
>
> In order to use the App’s functionality, the user must first create
> stable API links to the Workflow instance containing the desired
> Product(s). Instructions for generating API access credentials for
> your Workflows are available in the [MoveApps API Links
> guide](https://docs.moveapps.org/#/API).

</div>

Using the Workflow instance API access credentials, users are required
to specify the name of the target Product, along with either the title
or the position of the App within Workflow where it is located.

#### Further details

As explained above, the method of appending the retrieved product to the
input dataset depends on whether the fetched object is of class
`move2::move2_loc` (stacked) or another class (attached via an
attribute). Additionally:

- When stacking, the App offers an option to manage duplicated track IDs
  between the two stacked datasets. Users can choose between merging or
  renaming the duplicated IDs (see `track_combine` in Section
  [Parameters](#parameters)).

- In case the stacked dataset includes time-location duplicates, the App
  automatically removes the duplicated rows with less information. A
  warning message is issued.

- If stacking involves objects with different CRS projections, the
  retrieved `move2::move2_loc` data is pre-projected match the CRS of
  the input dataset before the stacking step takes place. A warning
  message is issued.

- When attaching, the retrieved product is assigned to the list element
  `object` of the output’s `appended_products` attribute (see Section
  [Accessing Attached Products](#accessing-attached-products) for
  further details).

- Regardless of the appending method used, metadata containing pertinent
  information on the retrieved product (e.g. source Workflow instance,
  App Title, Product filename, time of last modification) is stored in
  list element `metadata` of the output’s `appended_products` attribute.

- The `appended_products` attribute itself is a `list` object, meaning
  Products retrieved in multiple deployments of the App whithin a
  Workflow are added consecutively as list elements.

### Input data

A `move2::move2_loc` object.

### Output data

A `move2::move2_loc` object comprising the extra attribute
`appended_products`. See sections [Further Details](#further-details)
and [Accessing Attached Products](#accessing-attached-products) from
more info.

### Artefacts

`appended_product_metadata.csv`: a table with the metadata of the
appended Workflow Product.

### Parameters

**ID of Target Workflow Instance** (`usr`): the API’s ID (i.e. Username)
of the Workflow Instance containing the target Product (check
<https://docs.moveapps.org/#/API>). Default: `NULL`.

**Password of Target Workflow Instance** (`pwd`): the API’s Password of
the Workflow Instance containing the target Product (check
<https://docs.moveapps.org/#/API>). Default: `NULL`.

**Target Workflow Title** (`workflow_title`): the name of the Workflow
with the target Product. While we recommend using the full title for
clarity, aliases or acronyms are accepted. Default: `NULL`.

**Target App Title** (`app_title`): the name of the App comprising the
target Product. Please ensure the name of the App is accurate. Not
required if ‘Target App Position in Workflow’ is specified. Default:
`NULL`.

**Target App Position in Workflow** (`app_pos`): Enter the position of
the App containing the target Product in the Workflow’s pipeline (note:
initial App is in position 1). Not required if ‘Target App Title’ is
specified. Default: `NULL`.

**Target Product Filename** (`product_file`): the target Product name.
Please ensure the filename is accurate. You can omit the extension,
unless multiple artifact files in the target App share the same
basename. Currently supported target Product file-types: ‘.rds’, ‘.csv’,
and ‘.txt’. Default: `NULL`.

**Duplicated Track IDs** (`track_combine`): If the target Product is a
`move2::move2_loc` object, you can choose how to handle potential
duplicated track IDs when stacking input and retrieved datasets. The
‘Merge’ option combines tracks with the same name, while the ‘Rename’
option assigns new names to non-unique tracks. Default: ‘Merge’.

### Most common errors

If any of the inputs specified for the App parameters fails to
accurately identify the target Product for retrieval, the App will
generate informative error messages indicating where the
misspecification occurred. Most common misspecifications include:

- inaccurate naming of target App title and/or Product filename;
- non-existence of the target Product in the specified App;
- inconsistency between the specified name of the target App and the
  specified position of that App in the target Workflow.

<div>

> **Caution**
>
> This App was developed based on the existing structure and attribute
> names underlying MoveApps’s API framework. If there are changes to
> naming conventions or modifications in the way API links are
> constructed in the future, the code will be susceptible to HTTP
> request errors.

</div>

### Null or error handling

Parameters `usr`, `pwd` and `product_file` must be specified, whereas at
least one of `app_title` and `app_pos` needs to be provided.

The `workflow_title` parameter is optional since Workflow instance
identification is already provided by `usr`. However, we strongly
recommend specifying a clear and identifiable name for the target
Workflow to ensure clarity when potentially referring to appended
Products in downstream Apps.

### Accessing Attached Products

This section offers additional information about the App’s output data.
It is particularly relevant for developers wanting to use the output
dataset in the development of downstream Apps. MoveApps users intending
to access the output data locally can also find this section useful.

As described [above](#further-details), the `appended_products`
attribute of the App’s output is a `list` object storing information,
and on occasion the actual data, of Products retrieved from concurrent
Workflows. Each list element represents an instance of the App deployed
within the current Workflow up to the current stage, containing the
relevant data of the fetched Product in a sub-list with the following
elements:

- `metadata`: holds high-level information about the appended Product
  (e.g. original Workflow and App titles, last time modified, whether in
  was stacked or annexed to the input data). This element is always
  present in `appended_products`, regardless of the appending method
  applied.

- `object`: stores the actual object(s) contained in the fetched Product
  when they belong to classes other than `move2:move2_loc`.

`appended_products` can be accessed using the `attr()` function. For
example, the following code demonstrates how to access information and
data from appended objects after deploying the App twice to retrieve
Products from two different target Apps in a concurrent (mock) Workflow.
First, let’s verify if two Products have indeed been retrieved and
appended to the App’s current output object (`app_output`).

``` r
# quick look at the app's output object
app_output
```

    A <move2> with `track_id_column` "individual_name_deployment_id" and
    `time_column` "timestamp"
    Containing 5 tracks lasting on average 267 days in a
    Simple feature collection with 8020 features and 46 fields
    Geometry type: POINT
    Dimension:     XY
    Bounding box:  xmin: 3.7317 ymin: -14.6795 xmax: 53.61963 ymax: 69.15667
    Geodetic CRS:  WGS 84
    # A tibble: 8,020 × 47
       sensor_type_id barometric_pressure data_decoding_software eobs_activity
     *        <int64>              [mbar] <fct>                          <int>
     1            653                  NA <NA>                              NA
     2            653                  NA <NA>                              NA
     3            653                  NA <NA>                              NA
     4            653                  NA <NA>                              NA
     5            653                  NA <NA>                              NA
     6            653                  NA <NA>                              NA
     7            653                  NA <NA>                              NA
     8            653                  NA <NA>                              NA
     9            653                  NA <NA>                              NA
    10            653                  NA <NA>                              NA
    # ℹ 8,010 more rows
    # ℹ 43 more variables: eobs_activity_samples <dbl>, eobs_battery_voltage [mV],
    #   eobs_fix_battery_voltage [mV], eobs_horizontal_accuracy_estimate [m],
    #   eobs_key_bin_checksum <int64>, eobs_speed_accuracy_estimate [m/s],
    #   eobs_start_timestamp <dttm>, eobs_status <ord>, eobs_temperature [°C],
    #   eobs_type_of_fix <fct>, eobs_used_time_to_get_fix [s], gps_dop [1],
    #   gps_satellite_count [count], ground_speed [m/s], gt_tx_count [count], …
    Track features:
    # A tibble: 5 × 111
      individual_name_deploym…¹ deployment_id tag_id individual_id animal_life_stage
    * <chr>                           <int64> <int6>       <int64> <fct>            
    1 742 (deploy_id:56853924)       20813892    2e7      20813618 <NA>             
    2 746 (deploy_id:20813885)       56853924    5e7      56850841 <NA>             
    3 749 (deploy_id:20813892)       20813885    2e7      20813603 <NA>             
    4 Bateleur_8889                        NA   NA              NA <NA>             
    5 TAWNY_8891                           NA   NA              NA <NA>             
    # ℹ abbreviated name: ¹​individual_name_deployment_id
    # ℹ 106 more variables: animal_mass [g], attachment_type <fct>,
    #   deployment_comments <chr>, deploy_off_person <chr>,
    #   deploy_off_timestamp <dttm>, deploy_on_person <chr>,
    #   deploy_on_timestamp <dttm>, deployment_end_type <fct>,
    #   deployment_local_identifier <fct>, manipulation_type <fct>,
    #   study_site <chr>, sensor_type_ids <chr>, capture_location <POINT [°]>, …

``` r
# extract the data stored in output's `appended_products` attribute
apnd_prods <- attr(app_output, "appended_products")
# number of appended products
length(apnd_prods)
```

    [1] 2

We can then query the metadata of the two appended products.

``` r
purrr::map(apnd_prods, ~.$metadata)
```

    [[1]]
      workflow_title        instance_title appPositionInWorkflow
    1           Mock Workflow Instance 001                     2
                      appTitle       fileName   mimeType fileSize
    1 Add Local and Solar Time data_wtime.csv text/plain   172252
                       modifiedAt file_basename file_ext append_type
    1 2023-11-01T15:46:49.336246Z    data_wtime      csv    attached

    [[2]]
      workflow_title        instance_title appPositionInWorkflow
    1           mock Workflow Instance 001                     8
                                                appTitle       fileName
    1 Standardise Formats and Calculate Basic Statistics app-output.rds
               mimeType fileSize                  modifiedAt file_basename file_ext
    1 application/r-rds    22417 2024-01-08T14:12:24.868915Z    app-output      rds
      append_type
    1     stacked

As indicated in the `append_type` column, the first retrieved product
was attached as an element of the Output’s `appended_products`
attribute, while the second fetched product (of class `move2:move2_loc`)
was stacked to the input dataset.

To access the actual data in the first appended Product, we hoist the
nested element `object` from the first element of `apnd_prods`.

``` r
apnd_prods |> 
  purrr::pluck(1) |> 
  purrr::pluck("object")
```

    # A tibble: 250 × 85
       trackId       timestamp           location.long location.lat sensor
       <chr>         <dttm>                      <dbl>        <dbl> <chr> 
     1 Bateleur_8889 2023-10-01 14:45:12          38.6        -9.62 GPS   
     2 Bateleur_8889 2023-10-01 15:00:18          38.6        -9.62 GPS   
     3 Bateleur_8889 2023-10-01 15:15:13          38.6        -9.62 GPS   
     4 Bateleur_8889 2023-10-01 15:30:12          38.6        -9.62 GPS   
     5 Bateleur_8889 2023-10-01 15:45:15          38.6        -9.62 GPS   
     6 Bateleur_8889 2023-10-01 16:00:18          38.6        -9.62 GPS   
     7 Bateleur_8889 2023-10-01 16:15:11          38.6        -9.62 GPS   
     8 Bateleur_8889 2023-10-01 16:30:10          38.6        -9.62 GPS   
     9 Bateleur_8889 2023-10-01 16:45:11          38.6        -9.62 GPS   
    10 Bateleur_8889 2023-10-01 17:00:11          38.6        -9.62 GPS   
    # ℹ 240 more rows
    # ℹ 80 more variables: individual.taxon.canonical.name <chr>, event.id <dbl>,
    #   barometric.pressure <dbl>, data.decoding.software <dbl>,
    #   eobs.battery.voltage <dbl>, eobs.fix.battery.voltage <dbl>,
    #   eobs.horizontal.accuracy.estimate <dbl>, eobs.key.bin.checksum <dbl>,
    #   eobs.speed.accuracy.estimate <dbl>, eobs.start.timestamp <dttm>,
    #   eobs.status <chr>, eobs.temperature <dbl>, eobs.type.of.fix <dbl>, …

Data in the second appended product was stacked to the input dataset,
and hence the respective `object` element is non-existent.

``` r
apnd_prods |> 
  purrr::pluck(2) |> 
  purrr::pluck("object")
```

    NULL
